# Change history for stripes-components

## 3.0.0 (IN PROGRESS)

* In `<Datepicker>`, added a new `ignoreLocalOffset` prop that ignores the tenant timezone and treats the date as UTC to display the date. Fixes UIORG-55
* Adjust address read only view. Fixes STCOM-152.
* `<FilterPaneSearch>` supports `searchableIndexes`, `selectedIndex` and `onChangeIndex` properties. Fixes STCOM-171.
* Functions made by `makeQueryFunction` support the `qindex` parameter, which is interpreted as the name of the _only_ field to search. This allows us to support field-specific searching. Fixes STCOM-172.
* `<Select>` options can be disabled via a 'disabled' property in dataOptions. Fixes STCOM-173.
* `makeQueryFunction` supports relation-modifiers in the `qindex` parameter. Fixes STCOM-174.
* `<FilterGroups>` implements the new `disableNames` property. Fixes STCOM-166.
* `<FilterPaneSearch>` supports specific field selection. Fixes STCOM-177.
* Added `<RepeatableField>` component. Fixes STCOM-143.
* New `failIfNoQuery` argument to `makeQueryFunction`, specifies whether to reject an empty query. Fixes STCOM-181.
* `<MultiColumnList>` accepts a React component as the `isEmptyMessage` property (as well as a string, as before). Fixes STCOM-184.
* In `<FilterGroups>`, the `handleFilterChange` and `handleFilterClear` functions return the modified filter state. Fixes STCOM-188.
* Backwards the function delete-suppression in `<EditableList>` was. Fixes STCOM-189.
* In `<Button>`, omit "hollow" prop from those passed to `<button>`. Fixes STCOM-196.
* Remove the old `<AuthorityList>`, which has been superseded by `<ControlledVocab>` in stripes-smart-components. Completes STSMACOM-6.
* Remove `<MultiColumnList>`'s default click handler - component now checks for a supplied click handler before calling `preventDefault()`. Fixes STCOM-197
* Remove `<MultColumnList>`'s focus-tracking via ref to rowFormatter. Fixes STCOM-202.
* Adjust EditableListForm setup. Fixes STCOM-203.
* Implement `restrictWhenAllSelected` group flag for filter-groups. Fixes STCOM-204. Included in v2.0.1.
* Update `<FilterGroups>` documentation for recent API changes. Fixes STCOM-206.
* `<SearchForm>` does not add a placeholder to the dropdown of indexes if `searchableIndexesPlaceholder` is null. Fixes STCOM-220.
* Generalise `failIfNoQuery` argument to `makeQueryFunction`, now `failOnCondition`. Fixes STCOM-219. Available from v2.0.2.
* Proper documentation for `makeQueryFunction`. Fixes STCOM-221.
* Make `makeQueryFunction` robust to failed substitutions. Fixes STCOM-225. Available from v2.0.3.
* `makeQueryFunction` favours parameter-access via the anointed resource rather than the URL. Fixes STCOM-226. Available from v2.0.4.
* In `<Checkbox>`, nest HTML checkboxes inside labels instead of associating the labels by ID. Fixes STCOM-227. Available from 2.0.5.
* CSS tweak for `<Checkbox>` to bring the UI element back on screen. Refs STCOM-227. Available from 2.0.6.
* In `<EditableList>` (via `<EditableListForm>`), added a new `actionProps` prop to allow for direct prop edits for action buttons.
* Fix multiple addresses displaying side by side. Fixes STCOM-230.
* `<MultiColumnList>` properly fills height when `autosize` prop is used - even on browser resize. Fixes STCOM-29.
* `<Timepicker>` component added. See [docs](lib/Timepicker/readme.md).
* Fixed text overflowing icon in <Select>
* Fixed text overflowing icon in `<Select>`.
* Ignore yarn-error.log file. Refs STRIPES-517.
* `<Selection>` component added. Resolves STCOM-131.
* Custom option formatter added to `<Selection>`. Resolves STCOM-233.
* In queries generated by `makeQueryFunction`, the portion before `sortby` is always parenthesized. Fixes STCOM-240.
* Use country-code to country-name mapping in `<AddressFieldGroup>`. Fixes STCOM-242. Available from v2.0.8.
* MCL should use column-titles, not column keys, for the aria-label field. Fixes STCOM-246. Available from v2.0.9.
* Allow for selecting value programmatically in Selection component. Fixes STCOM-250.
* `<FilterGroups>` support hidden constraints. Refs UIU-400. Available from v2.0.10.
* Don't choke on undefined filters. Fixes UIU-470. Available from v2.0.11.
* Fix `<ConfirmationModal>` scope. Fixes STCOM-255.
* `<EditableList>` now autofocuses the first editable field when mounting an editable row. Fixes STCOM-256.
* Added `<ErrorBoundary>` component to stop render() error propagation.
* Added universal interaction styles to all relevant components.
* Various updates in relation to new universal interaction styles.
* Restore checkbox IDs, which were erroneously removed. Available from v2.0.13.

## [2.0.0](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/tree/v2.0.0) (2017-12-07)
[Full Changelog](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/compare/v1.9.0...v2.0.0)

* Refactor `<EntrySelector>` to make it more reusable. Fixes STCOM-97.
* Added `<ConfirmationModal>` component to 'structures' folder. Supports STCOM-66. See [docs](lib/structures/ConfirmationModal/readme.md).
* Added `<Callout>` component for supplying feedback to the user with various actions. Supports STCOM-66. See [docs](lib/Callout/readme.md).
* Fix connect in `<Settings>`. Fixes STCOM-99.
* Update `<EntrySelector>`. Fixes STCOM-100.
* Address FieldGroup uses a radio button for setting 'Primary' field. Fixes UIU-260.
* Address FieldGroup's Address Type field will only display options that are previously unused in the address form. Fixes UIU-260.
* Aesthetic updates - Delete button is now a trashcan Icon. Fixes UIU-260.
* Changes in field order- Address Type comes first, Country is last. Fixes UIU-260.
* Add onClick callback to `<EntrySelector>`. Refs UICIRC-20 Scenario 5.
* Fix bug in `<Datepicker>` mis-handling non-US date formats. Fixes STCOM-110, STCOM-114, STCOM-115.
* `transitionToParams` uses `queryString.stringify` instead of by-hand gluing. Fixes STCOM-112
* Fix defaultRoute in `<Settings>` when `pages` is not sorted by `label`. Fixes STCOM-113.
* Add `<LayoutHeader>` and `<LayoutBox>` components for assistance with layout tasks. Covers STCOM-118.
* Fixed bug in `<Paneset>` occurring when multiple Panes are dismissed at once. Fixes STCOM-121, STCOM-117 and STSMACOM-17.
* Include `dataKey` in when connecting `<Settings>` components. Fixes UICIRC-33.
* Adding empty `<Icon icon="profile" />` in support of UIU-283; see STCOM-124.
* Show errors for `<Select>` elements regardless of the presence of a label attribute. Fixes STCOM-126.
* Add `react-tether` to `<Datepicker>`. Fixes STCOM-125.
* Remove `<Accordion>` from `<AddressList`. Fixes STCOM-138.
* Add `interactive` to `<MultiColumnList>` to toggle cursor CSS on non-interactive lists. Fixes STCOM-139.
* Add `handleFilterChange` method for FilterGroups. Works with anointed resource instead of component state. Fixes STCOM-148.
* Add `filterState` method for FilterGroups. Like `initialFilterState` but doesn't need the configuraton object. Fixes STCOM-147.
* Numerous style updates to `<MultiColumnList>`, `<Button>`, `<Checkbox>` and other components.
* Storybook resource added. Run `yarn storybook` to see component demos and documentation.
* Pass a ref through to TextArea for access by a parent. Refs STSMACOM-4.
* Add ability to pass custom filter to `<Selection>` component. Fixes STCOM-251.

## [1.9.0](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/tree/v1.9.0) (2017-10-13)
[Full Changelog](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/compare/v1.8.0...v1.9.0)

* Really restore missing props to generated component in `<TextField>` and `<Button>`. See STCOM-83. Fixes STCOM-84.
* Add Badge component. Fixes STCOM-90.
* Props `noOverflow` and `contentPadding` added to `<Pane>`. See [docs](lib/Pane/readme.md). Fixes STCOM-40.
* `<Dropdown>` supportive classes added to `<Button>`. Fixes STCOM-68.
* Add `<EntrySelector>`, copied from ui-circulation so it can also be used in other modules. Fixes STCOM-92.
* Add 'else' conditional example to documentation for `<IfPermission>`. See [docs](lib/IfPermission/readme.md). Fixes STCOM-93.

## [1.8.0](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/tree/v1.8.0) (2017-09-28)
[Full Changelog](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/compare/v1.7.0...v1.8.0)

* `<Dropdown>` component added. See [docs](lib/Dropdown/readme.md). Part of STCOM-34.
* `react-tether` dependency added for `<Dropdown>`.
* Use metadata, not metaData. See MODNOTES-2.
* Correctly update note's link when selected user changes. Fixes STUTILNOTE-1.
* Explicitly gray out text inputs. Fixes STCOM-9
* Animated Transitions added to `<Accordion>`.
* `<ExpandAllButton>` added to `<Accordion>`. Part of STCOM-71. See [docs](lib/Accordion/readme.md#expand-or-collapse-all)
* Pass native input props into `<RadioButton>`. Fixes STCOM-73
* Add `<SegmentedControl>` component. Resolves STCOM-77. See [docs](lib/SegmentedControl/readme.md).
* DropdownLayout CSS utility classes added to aid in layout of custom Dropdowns.
* `<RadioButtonGroup>` allows non-radio children for varied structure to RadioButton fields. Fixes STCOM-82.
* Refactor out `<Notes>` completely. See STUTILNOTE-2.
* Restore missing props to generated component in `<TextField>`. Fixes STCOM-83.

## [1.7.0](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/tree/v1.7.0) (2017-09-01)
[Full Changelog](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/compare/v1.6.0...v1.7.0)

* `<Settings>` no longer emits routes for pages which fail the permission check. Fixes STCOM-64.
* Added `separator` prop to `<Accordion>` for adding a border between accordion panes.
* `<FilterGroups>` pass `false` to the separator prop for `<Accordion>`
* Added `displayHeading` prop to `<AddressList>` for optional rendering of the heading and 'Add Address' button.
* Styling adjusted for `<DefaultAccordionHeader>` the background is now transparent for the entire `<Accordion>` header, save for the expand/collapse button.
* Refactor out `<Notes>`'s okapi interaction. See STUTILNOTE-2.

## [1.6.0](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/tree/v1.6.0) (2017-08-31)
[Full Changelog](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/compare/v1.5.0...v1.6.0)

* Add one side radius to `<Button>` styles. Fixes STCOM-57.
* First pass at `<Notes>` CRUD. See LIBAPP-188.
* `<NavListSection>` does not try to render a null child. Fixes STCOM-58.
* *New Component* `<Accordion>` added to fulfill STCOM-20.
* `<Button>` includes prop `buttonRef` for obtaining a ref to its rendered element.
* `down-triangle` and `up-triangle` added to `<Icon>`.

## [1.5.0](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/tree/v1.5.0) (2017-08-25)
[Full Changelog](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/compare/v1.4.0...v1.5.0)

* `<Notes>` component added. Part of STCOM-30.
* `minWidth` prop added to `<DropdownMenu>`.
* 'slim' class added to Button.css.
* New icons added to <Icon> ('down-caret', 'up-caret').
* Fix currently selected item in Settings. Fixes STCOM-37.
* Add support for unsaved changes notification to `<AddressEdit>`. Fixes STCOM-35.
* Add boolean prop to control validation rendering for `<TextField>`. Fixes STCOM-39.
* Avoid "Unknown prop `validationEnabled` on `<input>` tag" warning. Fixes STCOM-42.
* MultiColumnList doesn't issue console warnings when displaying React elements. Fixes STCOM-36.
* MultiColumnList will allow overflow to be visible if requested. Fixes UIU-128.
* `<TabButton>` component added. Part of UIU-128.
* Change add button label to 'Add new' for `<EditableList>` and `<AuthorityList>`. Fixes UIU-157.
* Fix selected `<Settings>` pane. Fixes STCOM-50.
* Lint, including updating of the config-airbnb and jsx-a11y libraries. Part of STCOM-21.
* Fix address type validation in `<AddressEdit>`. Fixes STCOM-51.

## [1.4.0](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/tree/v1.4.0) (2017-08-01)
[Full Changelog](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/compare/v1.3.0...v1.4.0)

* Added dependency to `stripes-react-hotkeys` - broke HotKeys code out to its own npm repo. (@folio/stripes-react-hotkeys.)
* `<Button>` will render anchor if passed an href attribute. Completes STCOM-24
* PaneMenu buttons take up height of Pane Header.
* `<MultiColumnList>` focus of row follows row selection via bound keyboard navigation. Fixes STCOM-25 and 27.
* Change address button label. Fixes UIU-138
* Remove hardwired keyMap from `<MultiColumnList>`: use the one inherited from stripes-core. Part of STRIPES-359.
* Lint: clean up whitespace complaints. Part of STCOM-21.
* Lint: clean up semicolon complaints. Part of STCOM-21.
* Lint: clean up comma complaints. Part of STCOM-21.
* Lint: clean up import complaints. Part of STCOM-21.
* Lint: clean up arrow function complaints. Part of STCOM-21.
* Import `PropTypes` from `prop-types` instead of `React`. Part of STRIPES-427.
* Use configurable key-mappings to navigate search results. Fixes STCOM-28.
* `<FilterPaneSearch>` accepts optional new `placeholder` prop to specify placeholder text. Fixes STCOM-32.
* Add support for unsaved changes to `<EditableList>`. Fixes STCOM-26.

## [1.3.0](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/tree/v1.3.0) (2017-07-06)
[Full Changelog](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/compare/v1.2.0...v1.3.0)

* `<MultiColumnList>` supports block anchors in custom rowFormatter.
* `react-overlays` dependency version updated to 0.7.0.
* Add "height" prop and a max-height property(CSS) to `<Pane>`. Fixes STRPCOMP-16.
* Remove alert from `<FocusLink>`.
* Removed 'Example' directory.
* Keep `primaryAddress` field name consistent across `<AddressFieldGroup>` components.
* `<Pluggable>` recognises the special value `@@` for "no plugin". Fixes STRPCOMP-15.
* In `<AuthorityList>`, use `label` as pane-title, not `<h3>`. Part of STRPCOMP-1.

## [1.2.0](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/tree/v1.2.0) (2017-06-30)
[Full Changelog](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/compare/v1.1.0...v1.2.0)

* Bold chevron icons added to `<Icon>` component.
* Integrate `<FocusLink>` into `<FilterPaneSearch>` component. Part of STRPCOMP-7.
* Add `<FocusLink>` component. Part of STRPCOMP-7. [docs](lib/FocusLink/readme.md)
* `<MultiColumnList>` now passes columns, columnWidths, and cell aria-labels to rowFormatter so that they can be used in custom row templates. Fixes STRPCOMP-11
* `<MultiColumnList>` `columnWidths` prop is now functional. Fixes STRPCOMP-12. [docs](lib/MultiColumnList/readme.md)
* Added documentation for [handling CSS](docs/CSSinStripes.md) and [module layout components](docs/UIModuleLayout.md). Fixes STRPCOMP-10.
* Cured shifting of field buttons on form field validation.
* Keep primary address field name consistent. STRPCOMP-4.
* `<EditableList>` accepts optional `nameKey` argument. Needed for STRPCOMP-8.
* New component, `<AuthorityList>`, provides the underlying functionality for authority-list settings pages. Fixes STRPCOMP-8.

## [1.1.0](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/tree/v1.1.0) (2017-06-26)
[Full Changelog](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/compare/v1.0.0...v1.1.0)

* `<Icon>` [documentation](lib/Icon/readme.md)
* `<Icon>` can be centered using the `center` prop.
* `<Icon>` includes a trashbin icon.
* `<Icon>` updated to use `classnames` library.
* Style initialization of `<Pane>` moved to the constructor. (STRPCOMP-2)
* `<Datepicker>` uses momentjs strict mode to avoid deprecation warnings.
* `labelStyle` option `formLabel` added to `<Checkbox>`
* Styling prop `marginBottom0` supported on `<Select>`
* Remove focus border outline from `<MultiColumnList>`
* Fix issue with `<Datepicker>` not rendering updated date values. (STRPCOMP-6)
* Added timestamp to the state of `HotKeys` so that it will refresh its broadcasted context.
* Fixed couple minor issues in `<AddressFieldGroup>`. (STRPCOMP-4)
* react-hotkeys fix: when hot-key bindings are modified the new bindings take effect immediately. Fixes STRPCOMP-5.

## [1.0.0](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/tree/v1.0.0) (2017-06-22)
[Full Changelog](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/compare/v0.16.0...v1.0.0)

* Added `<EmbeddedAddressForm>` and `<AddressEditList>` component to `<AddressFieldGroup>` to support nesting within forms.

## [0.16.0](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/tree/v0.16.0) (2017-06-21)
[Full Changelog](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/compare/v0.15.0...v0.16.0)

* `<SRStatus>` component added for accessibility support. [docs](lib/SRStatus/readme.md)
* `<Datepicker>` bugfix for manually entering date. (LIBAPP-219)
* `<Select>` uses `classnames` library to apply its styling.
* Remove 'selected' attribute from `<Select>`'s placeholder option. (STRIPES-422)
* `<Settings>` pulls `paneTitle` from `props` instead of hard-coding it.

## [0.15.0](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/tree/v0.15.0) (2017-06-14)
[Full Changelog](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/compare/v0.14.0...v0.15.0)

* In `makeQueryFunction`, the `sort` parameter is now a comma-separated list of criteria. Towards UIU-83.
* `<Datepicker>` pulls locale from stripes object.

## [0.14.0](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/tree/v0.14.0) (2017-06-13)
[Full Changelog](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/compare/v0.13.0...v0.14.0)

* `<Datepicker>` uses `locale` prop to set default presentational date format.
* `<MultiColumnList>` index of rows exposed to `formatter` functions.
* `<MultiColumnList>` bug fix for component not updating when supplied new value for `visibleColumns` prop.
* Support for reverse sorting, UIU-81:
  * makeQueryFunction supports reverse sorting ('`-`' prefixing sort-field).
  * In `<MultiColumnList>`, getHeaderClassName uses the ascending/descending styles only on the current sorting header.
  * In `<MultiColumnList>`, add CSS pseudoclasses for `.ascending::after` and `.descending::after`.

## [0.13.0](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/tree/v0.13.0) (2017-06-09)
[Full Changelog](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/compare/v0.12.0...v0.13.0)

* Top `<Settings>` link is highlighted by default. Fixes the last part of STRIPES-357.
* Add the `<IfInterface>` component, which renders its children only if the specified server-side interface is available at a compatible version.

## [0.12.0](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/tree/v0.12.0) (2017-06-08)
[Full Changelog](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/compare/v0.11.2...v0.12.0)

* `<MultiColumnList>` supports infinite-scroll functionality via the `virtualize` prop. This comes with a few other updates to the API such as the `autosize` prop and `onNeedMoreData`. See [docs](lib/MultiColumnList/readme.md)
* `<MultiColumnList>` has 'fixed' column headers that will remain visible when the body of the list is scrolled.
* `<Pane>` will not automatically set a minimum width to its content's wrapping div, opting for fluid width as a default.

## [0.11.2](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/tree/v0.11.2) (2017-06-08)
[Full Changelog](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/compare/v0.11.1...v0.11.2)

* Add `create-react-class` to dependencies, since this is needed by the modified version of react-hotkeys that was provided in v0.11.0.

## [0.11.1](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/tree/0.11.1) (2017-06-07)
[Full Changelog](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/compare/v0.11.0...v0.11.1)

* Add `mousetrap` to dependencies, since this is needed by the modified version of react-hotkeys that was provided in v0.11.0.

## [0.11.0](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/tree/v0.11.0) (2017-06-07)
[Full Changelog](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/compare/v0.10.1...v0.11.0)

* `<HotKeys>` component allow for applying shortcut key combinations to modules or sub-sections of modules.
*  Layout Grid - using [react-flexbox-grid](https://roylee0704.github.io/react-flexbox-grid/) to replace the float-based grid from react-bootstrap. [docs](lib/LayoutGrid/readme.md)
* `<Select`> component will now correctly display a placeholder value if there is one.

## [0.10.1](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/tree/v0.10.1) (2017-06-05)
[Full Changelog](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/compare/v0.10.0...v0.10.1)

* `<Datepicker>` - fix multiple issues with date navigation and focus management. (STRIPES-398)

## [0.10.0](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/tree/v0.10.0) (2017-06-01)
[Full Changelog](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/compare/v0.9.0...v0.10.0)

* `<Settings>` component now sorts settings pages by label. Implements STRIPES-358.
* `<TextField>` hides clear "&#10005;" when `readOnly` prop is true.
* `<Datepicker>` changed 'format' prop to 'DateFormat' for better cooperation with redux-form `<Field>` component.
* `<Datepicker>` hides clear and calendar controls, disables functionality when `readOnly` prop is true.
* Update stripes-core dependency to 1.7.0, so we get the Stripes object on the context.
* `<IfPermission>`, `<Pluggable>` and `<Settings>` now all take the Stripes object from the React context rather than expecting it to be passed in as a prop. Fixes STRIPES-395.

## [0.9.0](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/tree/v0.9.0) (2017-05-22)
[Full Changelog](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/compare/v0.8.0...v0.9.0)

* `<Pluggable>` component now honours the plugin preferences provided in the Stripes object. These are available from stripes-core v1.6.0, and the peer-dependency is updated accordingly.
* `<Settings>` component now passes the `label` part of the settings object down into the component.

## [0.8.0](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/tree/v0.8.0) (2017-05-17)
[Full Changelog](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/compare/v0.7.0...v0.8.0)

* Add the `<Pluggable>` component. Implements Stripes plugins (STRIPES-379).
* Fix a couple of minor JS-console warnings.

## [0.7.0](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/tree/v0.7.0) (2017-05-03)
[Full Changelog](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/compare/v0.6.1...v0.7.0)

* Add `makeQueryFunction` util to replace `makePathFunction` which will be removed in a subsequent release.
* Add `<Settings>` component to render top-level settings pages for Stripes modules.

## [0.6.1](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/tree/v0.6.1) (2017-04-14)
[Full Changelog](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/compare/v0.6.0...v0.6.1)

* Added `fluidContentWidth` prop to `<Pane>` component. This suppresses `<Pane>` wrapping its content in a div with static minimum width.
* Added `defaultWidth` prop to `<Paneset>` in case paneset needs a specified width. Defaults to `'fill'`

## [0.6.0](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/tree/v0.6.0) (2017-04-11)
[Full Changelog](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/compare/v0.5.0...v0.6.0)

* Added `<Modal>` component. [docs](lib/Modal/readme.md)
* Added `dismissible` and `onClose` props to `<Pane>`. `dismissible` can be used to render a dismiss '&times;' button, with a corresponding handler supplied in `onClose` that will be triggered when the pane is dismissed. The module should use this handler to clean up any state or logic that triggered the pane's rendering. [docs](lib/Pane/readme.md)
* `<Layer>` renders its contents to the root of the containing `<Paneset>`. [docs](lib/Layer/readme.md)
* Prop `isRoot` added to `<Paneset>` - this should be used for full-width panesets added in new `<Layer>` components to ensure that the descendent `<Panes>` are tracked and sized appropriately. [docs](lib/Paneset/readme.md)
* Use `requestAnimationFrame` to improve rendering performance of `<Textfield>`
* Added 'browser' and 'node' environments to eslint configuration so that it will accept calls to browser functions such as `requestAnimationFrame`.

## [0.5.0](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/tree/v0.5.0) (2017-03-28)
[Full Changelog](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/compare/v0.4.0...v0.5.0)

* Add `<EditableList>` component.
* Add clear-field button to the `<TextField>` component.
* Add `columnMapping` prop to `<MultiColumnList>`
* `<MultiColumnList>` `onHeaderClick` callback is passed "name" and "alias" for the column in case `columnMapping` prop is supplied.

## [0.4.0](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/tree/v0.4.0) (2017-03-22)
[Full Changelog](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/compare/v0.3.0...v0.4.0)

* The `<IfPermission>` component now uses the stripes-core v0.4.0 API for permission-checking, and the stripes-core peer-dependency has been made explicit.

## [0.3.0](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/tree/v0.3.0) (2017-03-17)
[Full Changelog](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/compare/v0.2.0...v0.3.0)

* `transitionToParams` now uses the new release of [React Router](https://reacttraining.com/react-router/). This significantly changes the API for URL-derived props and for changing the URL.

## [0.2.0](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/tree/v0.2.0) (2017-03-16)
[Full Changelog](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/compare/v0.1.0...v0.2.0)

* Add the `<IfPermission>` component, which renders its children only if the specified permission is present.
* Change substitution syntax in the `queryTemplate` parameter of the `makePathFunction` utility function from `${query}` to `$QUERY`. The former misleading resembled ES6 string-template notations, but that's not really what was happening here.

## [0.1.0](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/tree/v0.1.0) (2017-03-16)
[Full Changelog](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/compare/v0.0.4...v0.1.0)

* Add the utility function `makePathFunction` and [its documentation](util/README.md).

## [0.0.4](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/tree/v0.0.4) (2017-03-13)
[Full Changelog](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/compare/v0.0.3...v0.0.4)

* Added Datepicker Component.
* Updated TextField Component to make use of validation styles/icons
* Updated Icon component to include validation icons for success, error, and a spinner for asynchronous validation in progress.
* Updated Dependencies in package.json to include moment.js, classnames, and react-overlays libraries.

## [0.0.3](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/tree/v0.0.3) (2017-03-01)
[Full Changelog](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/compare/v0.0.2...v0.0.3)

* Add new area, [`util`](util), for utility functions. This contrasts with `lib`, which contains utility components.
* Add new utility function `transitionToParams` -- see the Users UI module for an example of how to use it. Fixes STRIPES-216.
* Add [documentation](util/README.md) for `transitionToParams`.
* `<List>` warns if passed a falsy value for items.

## [0.0.2](https://github.com/folio-org/stripes-components/tree/v0.0.2) (2017-02-25)

* First version to have a documented change-log. Each subsequent version will
  describe its salient differences from the previous one.
* Includes the FilterGroups library.
