# Accessible Routing in FOLIO

## Introduction

Currently, navigation inside of FOLIO modules is only accessible to
those who use a mouse. That means keyboard, screen reader, dictation,
and switch users will not be able to navigate around FOLIO modules
without some form of assistance.

This is because FOLIO is built as a single page app (or SPA). SPAs
don’t reload the entire page when a link is clicked and you navigate
to a new page (or route), only the part of the page that changed will
re-render. This makes navigation efficient but not without a
trade-off. Assistive tech (AT) does not know when a route transition
has happened, so it does not alert the user that something has
changed. I have [written about this in a little more detail with
examples
here.](https://medium.com/@robdel12/single-page-apps-routers-are-broken-255daa310cf)

The good news is we can fix this, but it’s going to take a little bit
of effort. No framework or library has _solved_ this problem yet. The
closest might be Ember with `ember-a11y`.

With that in mind, we wanted to do a spike on eHoldings to see what it
would take to make a React SPA accessible while also looking for ways
to create a pattern for other FOLIO modules can follow.

## Spike Goals

We had a sprint cut out to see what we could do. We knew we weren’t
going to solve it for everyone in the first shot but wanted to make
sure what we learned was documented and shared.

Sharing and documenting what we learned while going through this
process will be very helpful to any future FOLIO developers looking to
implement accessible routing. It's important that we assess the needs
of not only eHoldings, but the greater FOLIO community.

We also wanted to try a couple of different approaches to focus
management. Could we rely on the router to provide the right
information for what needs to be focused? Do we have to wrap the
router to make that information available? Are routes the best way to
do this (and if not, why?)

There were three major areas that needed focus management in eHoldings:

- Searching for a title/package/provider
- Selecting a title/package/provider should place focus in the show component
- Closing the third pane should place the focus back on the previously
  selected title/package/provider.

### Accessible Focus Management

Before we go too much further I want to make sure we’re on the same
page about accessible focus management. When we navigate with a mouse
and can see what’s happening on the page it’s easy to perceive the
changes on the page. But any other method of navigation requires the
developer to _manage the focus_ of the user.

What does that mean? To be as clear as possible I’ll use an example
from eHoldings. In the eHoldings module, we have a three-pane
layout. One on the left, one in the middle, and one the right. The
rightmost pane is not always present. The center pane is usually a
list of items (like packages). If I were to navigate this layout with
_only_ a keyboard I would tab to the package I want, press enter, and
expect for my _keyboard focus_ to be placed in the newly opened
rightmost pane. This is important because the package list is an
infinite scrolling list and it would be impossible to tab all the way
through the list to get to that third pane on the right.

You can think about this as a _context change_. When I pressed enter
on the package I wanted, I was changing my context from _selecting_ a
package to _viewing_ a package. My mental model has changed and the
way I interact with the UI has also changed. It’s safe to say any time
there is a _context change_ there should be focus management done.

Now you might be thinking “what should I focus then?”. That’s an
excellent question and the crux of what makes automating accessibility
_impossible_. It’s all about providing the right context to the user
so they can operate on the UI in the manner they _expect_ to. This is
very hard to do right. Keeping with the example I gave for eHoldings,
we would want to set focus on the newly selected packages heading
inside of that third pane on the right. That way they know what
package was selected and they can navigate down through the pane as
needed.

The best advice I can give to test if there’s enough context given is
by closing your eyes. If you close your eyes and can **use** your
application without looking at what’s on the page, you’re in pretty
decent shape. There is no silver bullet for focus management. Just
like there’s no silver bullet for great UX.

Lastly, **never** set focus without the user explicitly invoking an
action. The user must be in control over this or it will be extremely
confusing.

## Spiked Approaches

While we were evaluating how to tackle this problem we came up with
three different approaches that could solve the issue at hand:

- Focus on mount through routes
- Wrap the route components with a container component
- Manually manage focus based on different kinds of state

We learned that none of these three were going to get it done by
themselves. It will take a combination of all three to achieve
accessible navigation.

### Focus on mount through routes

This is the first approach we took. When a route component renders its
given component, we should call `focus` on that component containing
the element. The code for this is simple when compared to other
solutions:

```javascript
class FocusOnMount extends Component {
  componentDidMount() {
    this.node.focus()
  }

  render() {
    return (
      <div ref={n => this.node = n} tabIndex="-1">
        {this.props.children}
      </div>
    )
  }
}

class AccessibleRoute extends Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <Route path={this.props.path} render={() => (
        <FocusOnMount>
          <Route {...this.props}/>
        </FocusOnMount>
      )}/>
    )
  }
}

// Usage
<AccessibleRoute path="/somewhere" component={Thing}/>
```

On the surface, this seemed like a great solution that could get us
pretty far. But once you start using the application beyond testing it
begins to fall apart. This approach only works under specific
conditions in your application.

A lot of components are used past their initial mount. This means if
the user is navigating around these components won’t set focus after
the first time since they don’t get torn down. The logical next step
would be to try and set focus based on updates in the
`componentDidUpdate`hook, but those conditionals turned nasty fast.

The next problem is each one of these components is entirely isolated
from each other. That means if you have a tree of components with a
hierarchy it turned into a focus war. The last component to mount
would win, which is nondeterministic.

Lastly, most FOLIO applications have a single route component which
means you will have to have a TON of logic in  `componentDidUpdate` if
you relied on this approach alone. This is the weakest mark against
this solution since I think all FOLIO applications should refactor to
break up their routes better, but that’s for a different time.

### Wrap the route components with a container component

Given what we learned from the first approach where the route
components were entirely isolated, we wondered if we could make more
information available to routes. This would make it so nested routes
would know what route is actually being routed to, which in theory,
eliminates the focus war. This is similar to how Ember’s router works
and how the `ember-a11y` addon is able to focus child routes smartly.

The idea was to wrap all of our `Route` components in eHoldings with a
container component that computed the routing tree from its child
route `path` props.  It’s important to note that this approach only
works if you have a clear routing hierarchy like eHoldings does:

```javascript
<Route path={rootPath} component={ApplicationRoute}>
  <Route path={`${rootPath}/:type?/:id?`} component={SearchRoute}>
    <Switch>
      <Route
        path={`${rootPath}/providers/:providerId`}
        exact
        component={ProviderShow}
      />
      <Route
        path={`${rootPath}/packages/new`}
        exact
        component={PackageCreate}
      />
      <Route
        path={`${rootPath}/packages/:packageId`}
        exact
        component={PackageShow}
      />
      <Route
        path={`${rootPath}/packages/:packageId/edit`}
        exact
        component={PackageEdit}
      />
      <Route path={`${rootPath}/titles/new`} exact component={TitleCreate} />
      <Route path={`${rootPath}/titles/:titleId`} exact component={TitleShow} />
      <Route
        path={`${rootPath}/titles/:titleId/edit`}
        exact
        component={TitleEdit}
      />
      <Route
        path={`${rootPath}/resources/:id`}
        exact
        component={ResourceShow}
      />
      <Route
        path={`${rootPath}/resources/:id/edit`}
        exact
        component={ResourceEdit}
      />
      <Route
        render={() => <Redirect to={`${rootPath}?searchType=providers`} />}
      />
    </Switch>
  </Route>
</Route>
```

You need to have a routing hierarchy so the container component can
understand the route transitions. When you’re going from route A to
route B, you want to send a prop to the component route B is going to
render. That prop will signal that component to focus the correct
element.

The main problem with this approach was the time investment needed to
build a robust enough component that could transverse its children and
build the route tree. We decided for the sake of time to cut the scope
down to emulate what the `Switch` component does so we didn’t have to
transverse children and grandchildren components.

It wasn’t until after we started writing code that we realized we
could wrap the `Route` component since it already has the current
`location` and the routers `match` URL. From there if the current
`match` equaled the current `location` we could safely assume that
the component should focus an element.  This is what that code looked
like:

```javascript
export class Route extends Component {
  static propTypes = {
    component: PropTypes.func,
    children: PropTypes.node
  };

  renderRoute = (routeProps) => {
    let shouldFocus;
    let {
      match,
      location,
    } = routeProps;
    let {
      component: Component,
      children
    } = this.props;

    if (match.url !== location.pathname) {
      shouldFocus = false;
    } else {
      shouldFocus = true;
    }

    return (
      <Component {...routeProps} shouldFocus={shouldFocus}>{children}</Component>
    );
  }

  render() {
    let { component: Component, children, ...props } = this.props;

    // we currently always provide a component
    /* istanbul ignore else */
    if (Component) {
      return (
        <RouterRoute
          {...props}
          render={this.renderRoute}
        /> // eslint-disable-line no-shadow
      );
    } else {
      return (<RouterRoute {...props}>{children}</RouterRoute>);
    }
  }
}
```

In theory, this was enough information we needed to start properly
focusing routes even after their first mount. But in practice, this
didn’t play out the way we expected. Since the entire app re-renders
any time there is a state change within the app, things kept getting
refocused unexpectedly.

The root of this problem is the router still does not provide enough
information about its current state. The best way to solve the
re-render problem is to provide an `onTransition` hook of some
sort. That way you clearly know if a new route is being transitioned
to.

While implementing, testing, and debugging this approach we realized
the way eHoldings was built doesn’t require us to rely on the router
to manage focus.

### Manually manage focus based on different kinds of state

Building off of the lessons learned from the two previous approaches
we discovered it would be possible to manually manage focus in
eHoldings. While the focus wouldn’t be managed through the router like
we initially set out to achieve, the routing structure absolutely
plays a critical role here.

To give a specific example in eHoldings, the third rightmost pane is a
component called `PackageShow` which is routed to when the
`${rootPath}/packages/:packageId` path matches (Note: It also can be
`TitleShow` or `ResourceShow` based on your search type). Each time
you select a new package this component is entirely re-mounted since
all of the data changes. It’s safe for us to focus the pane heading
each time this component is mounted. This is because our components
lifecycle is deterministic due to the routing structure.  The code for
the details view is simple thanks to the routing structure. It focuses
on the heading once the component mounts and the model is finished
loading.

Another example of manual focus management that doesn’t rely on the
router would be focusing the correct item in the list when you close
the third rightmost pane. We created a higher order component to wrap
around each list item that focuses itself (since it’s a link) if the
`shouldFocus` prop is true:

```js
/**
 * Higher order component that, when given the prop
 * `shouldFocus={true}`, will focus the component's DOM node on mount
 * and on update when the prop is toggled from `false` to `true`.
 */
export default function shouldFocus(Focusable) {
  return class extends Component {
    static propTypes = {
      shouldFocus: PropTypes.bool
    };

    componentDidMount() {
      if (this.props.shouldFocus) {
        this.focusable.focus();
      }
    }

    componentDidUpdate(prevProps) {
      if (this.props.shouldFocus && !prevProps.shouldFocus) {
        this.focusable.focus();
      }
    }

    get focusable() {
      // eslint-disable-next-line react/no-find-dom-node
      return findDOMNode(this);
    }

    render() {
      return (
        <Focusable {...this.props} />
      );
    }
  };
}
```

That HOC handles calling focus on those wrapped components, but where
does that `shouldFocus` prop come from? The answer is the
`routes/search.js` component. That component holds all of the
information we need to determine which item in the list needs to be
focused. In the `componentWillReceiveProps` method we check the URL to
make sure the details pane is closed and for the currently active item
ID. This new prop that’s called `shouldFocusItem` is then passed to
each infinite list container.

That new prop is now used for each list item to determine if it’s the
active & selected item. It’s also used to compute `shouldFocus` for
the HOC that wraps the list item components.

This ultimately was the approach we used to implement accessible
routing in eHoldings. If you would like to see more code and the final
product (with focus management tests) you can [check out the PR
here.](https://github.com/folio-org/ui-eholdings/pull/448)


## Difference between eHoldings & rest of FOLIO

There’s one major difference between eHoldings and the way the rest of
the FOLIO modules were built. eHoldings has an explicit and defined
routing hierarchy with many different routes. Current FOLIO modules
use `stripes-connect` which provides a single route and renders the
different components by matching query params. I touched on this a
little bit when detailing the different solutions we explored.

Having this clear routing hierarchy is key to having maintainable
focus management within eHoldings. It also has many other
non-accessible benefits like creating a clear separation between the
data loading component and view components.

There will have to be some refactoring for other FOLIO modules to
adopt an accessible routing solution. Through our discoveries in this
spike, it might not have to be too drastic as first thought. With that
said we highly recommend another spike in a different FOLIO module to
get a full understanding of the required work.

## Conclusion

Our spike works well in eHoldings for keyboard navigation and tested
well in macOS / VoiceOver / Safari. The main parts of navigation are
now accessible to most forms of assistive tech.

I recommend doing another spike just like this one on another FOLIO
module. We need to see the amount of work that will be needed to adapt
what we learned in eHoldings to the `stripes-connect`ed modules. It
will be different but how different is unknown. While having a clear
routing structure absolutely helped us manage focus manually via props
and current URL, I’m unsure how far the other FOLIO modules will have
to refactor in order to realize those benefits.

Another reason to re-spike is because eHoldings is a different UI with
different interactions. There are different workflows and routes in
every module — so each one will need special care and attention.

Ideally, in the future, we should also spike an implementation of a
fully featured router. Think `stripes-router`. I believe the router
should possess enough information to be able to smartly focus routes
based on transitions. That would make a lot of the manual work we did
in eHoldings unnecessary. It would also make sure the focus management
is more maintainable & manageable.

Lastly, this still needs to be tested thoroughly with JAWS, NVDA,
TalkBack, iOS VoiceOver, and Dragon NaturallySpeaking. We did lots of
testing in macOS / VoiceOver / Safari because that’s what is
immediately available on our end. But to be 100% sure this is working
as expected we should test with each AT combo and note any
differences.
